development/contribute.rst, before:

Contribute
##########

If you want to contribute to the |omv| project you have to subscribe a
`Contributor License Agreement <https://www.openmediavault.org/contributoragreement.html>`_.

You can easily subscribe the CLA with a single mouse click when submitting a
`pull request <https://github.com/openmediavault/openmediavault/pulls>`_ on GitHub.

Note that the CLA is not a transfer of copyright ownership, this simply is a
license agreement for contributions. You also do not change your rights to
use your own contributions for any other purpose.

Why do i have to subscribe a CLA when contributing to the |omv| project?
------------------------------------------------------------------------
    * http://oss-watch.ac.uk/resources/cla
    * http://www.golem.de/1107/85208.html
    * `Rechtliche Sicherheit bei Open-Source-Beiträgen <https://www.heise.de/developer/artikel/Rechtliche-Sicherheit-bei-Open-Source-Beitraegen-3807788.html>`_
    * Django's `CLA FAQ <https://www.djangoproject.com/foundation/cla/faq>`_
    * Karl Fogel's `Producing Open Source Software <http://producingoss.com/en/copyright-assignment.html>`_ on CLAs
    * The `Wikipedia article <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Contributor_license_agreement>`_ on CLAs
    * `Gemeinsame Durchsetzung der Rechte <https://www.golem.de/news/programmierer-wenn-der-urheber-gegen-das-urheberrecht-verliert-1904-140463-3.html>`_

Can I submit patches without having signed the CLA?
---------------------------------------------------
    No. All contributors and patch submitters must sign the CLA before they
    submit anything substantial. Trivial patches like spelling fixes or missing
    words won't require an agreement, since anybody could do those. However,
    almost anything will require a CLA.

Contribution rules
------------------
    Code contributions are welcome, please see <https://github.com/openmediavault/openmediavault/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md> for requirements.

How to become a translator?
---------------------------
    If you want to help translating the |omv| |webui| please do the following:

    * Subscribe the `CLA <https://www.openmediavault.org/contributoragreement.html>`_
      and send it to the given email address.
    * Create an account at `Transifex <https://www.transifex.com/signup/open-source/?join_project=openmediavault>`_
      and join the |omv| `project <https://translate.openmediavault.org>`_ as translator.
    * You will get notified when your request has been approved. You will be
      listed as contributor here.

Commit message:

Add some more text about how to contribute. This text has been taken (and adapted) from the Django project (CC BY 3.0 US - https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/us/)
Signed-off-by: Volker Theile <votdev@gmx.de>

development/contribute.rst, after:

Contribute
##########

If you want to contribute to the |omv| project you have to subscribe a
`Contributor License Agreement <https://www.openmediavault.org/contributoragreement.html>`_.

The CLA used by |omv| is a copy of the one used by the Apache Software
Foundation for all contributions to their projects. This particular
agreement has been used by other software projects in addition to Apache
and is generally accepted as reasonable within the Open Source community.

You can easily subscribe the CLA with a single mouse click when submitting a
`pull request <https://github.com/openmediavault/openmediavault/pulls>`_ on GitHub.

Note that the CLA is not a transfer of copyright ownership, this simply is a
license agreement for contributions. You also do not change your rights to
use your own contributions for any other purpose.

Why do i have to subscribe a CLA when contributing to the |omv| project?
------------------------------------------------------------------------
    * http://oss-watch.ac.uk/resources/cla
    * http://www.golem.de/1107/85208.html
    * `Rechtliche Sicherheit bei Open-Source-Beiträgen <https://www.heise.de/developer/artikel/Rechtliche-Sicherheit-bei-Open-Source-Beitraegen-3807788.html>`_
    * Django's `CLA FAQ <https://www.djangoproject.com/foundation/cla/faq>`_
    * Karl Fogel's `Producing Open Source Software <http://producingoss.com/en/copyright-assignment.html>`_ on CLAs
    * The `Wikipedia article <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Contributor_license_agreement>`_ on CLAs
    * `Gemeinsame Durchsetzung der Rechte <https://www.golem.de/news/programmierer-wenn-der-urheber-gegen-das-urheberrecht-verliert-1904-140463-3.html>`_

Can I submit patches without having signed the CLA?
---------------------------------------------------
    No. All contributors and patch submitters must sign the CLA before they
    submit anything substantial. Trivial patches like spelling fixes or missing
    words won't require an agreement, since anybody could do those. However,
    almost anything will require a CLA.

Contribution rules
------------------
    Code contributions are welcome, please see <https://github.com/openmediavault/openmediavault/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md> for requirements.

How to become a translator?
---------------------------
    If you want to help translating the |omv| |webui| please do the following:

    * Subscribe the `CLA <https://www.openmediavault.org/contributoragreement.html>`_
      and send it to the given email address.
    * Create an account at `Transifex <https://www.transifex.com/signup/open-source/?join_project=openmediavault>`_
      and join the |omv| `project <https://translate.openmediavault.org>`_ as translator.
    * You will get notified when your request has been approved. You will be
      listed as contributor here.
