installation/index.rst, before:

.. _installation_index:

Installation
############

Before you begin:
    - Check if your hardware is supported on the system :doc:`requirements
      page </prerequisites>`.

Installation variants:
    Choose your installation variant and follow the instructions.

    .. note::
        Choose the :doc:`Dedicated drive </installation/via_iso>` variant if
        you like to install |omv| from scratch on x86/AMD64 hardware. For SBC
        systems based on the ARM32/64 architecture use the :doc:`Debian Operating System </installation/on_debian>`
        variant.

    * :doc:`Dedicated drive </installation/via_iso>` - Advised method via ISO image. This runs OMV from its own drive.
    * :doc:`USB flash drive </installation/on_usb>` - This runs |omv| from a USB flash drive.
    * :doc:`Debian Operating System </installation/on_debian>` - Use an existing Debian OS installation for |omv|.
    * `Debian Operating System via debootstrap <https://forum.openmediavault.org/index.php/Thread/12070-GUIDE-DEBOOTSTRAP-Installing-Debian-into-a-folder-in-a-running-system/>`_. Use this as a last resort in case the installer does not recognize a specific essential hardware component like hard disk (NVME) or a network card that needs a higher kernel (backport).
    * :doc:`SD card </installation/via_image>` - This runs |omv| from a SD card.

First time use:
    If you have a screen attached, KVM or IMPI console the login screen will
    display the current IP address assigned for the |webui|. Open your browser
    and type that IP address. The default |webui| login credential is
    ``admin:openmediavault``, the ``root`` password is the one you setup during
    installation.

    For ARM images the root password is the same as admin password.

    .. note::
       |omv| will enable SSH access for the user ``root`` by default to be
       able to access a headless system in case of a broken installation or
       other maintenance situations. You should disable this behaviour in the
       ``Services | SSH`` page for security reasons after installation.

       To still get ``root`` access you need to create a non-privileged user
       and add them to the ``ssh`` and ``sudo`` groups. After that you can
       SSH into the system with this non-privileged user and run ``sudo su``.

Commit message:

Add warning that OMV does not run in container environments
Signed-off-by: Volker Theile <votdev@gmx.de>

installation/index.rst, after:

.. _installation_index:

Installation
############

.. warning::
    |omv| does not support the installation in LXC or any other container based solution.

Before you begin:
    - Check if your hardware is supported on the system :doc:`requirements
      page </prerequisites>`.

Installation variants:
    Choose your installation variant and follow the instructions.

    .. note::
        Choose the :doc:`Dedicated drive </installation/via_iso>` variant if
        you like to install |omv| from scratch on x86/AMD64 hardware. For SBC
        systems based on the ARM32/64 architecture use the :doc:`Debian Operating System </installation/on_debian>`
        variant.

    * :doc:`Dedicated drive </installation/via_iso>` - Advised method via ISO image. This runs OMV from its own drive.
    * :doc:`USB flash drive </installation/on_usb>` - This runs |omv| from a USB flash drive.
    * :doc:`Debian Operating System </installation/on_debian>` - Use an existing Debian OS installation for |omv|.
    * `Debian Operating System via debootstrap <https://forum.openmediavault.org/index.php/Thread/12070-GUIDE-DEBOOTSTRAP-Installing-Debian-into-a-folder-in-a-running-system/>`_. Use this as a last resort in case the installer does not recognize a specific essential hardware component like hard disk (NVME) or a network card that needs a higher kernel (backport).
    * :doc:`SD card </installation/via_image>` - This runs |omv| from a SD card.

First time use:
    If you have a screen attached, KVM or IMPI console the login screen will
    display the current IP address assigned for the |webui|. Open your browser
    and type that IP address. The default |webui| login credential is
    ``admin:openmediavault``, the ``root`` password is the one you setup during
    installation.

    For ARM images the root password is the same as admin password.

    .. note::
       |omv| will enable SSH access for the user ``root`` by default to be
       able to access a headless system in case of a broken installation or
       other maintenance situations. You should disable this behaviour in the
       ``Services | SSH`` page for security reasons after installation.

       To still get ``root`` access you need to create a non-privileged user
       and add them to the ``ssh`` and ``sudo`` groups. After that you can
       SSH into the system with this non-privileged user and run ``sudo su``.
