installation/via_iso.rst, before:

Installation using an ISO image
###############################

.. important::

	Disconnect all disk devices except the one that will be used for the
	operating system before starting the installation.

.. warning::

	The operating system/root filesystem will consume the whole space of the
	picked disk device. All existing data on that disk device will get lost.

Burn the installer
------------------
	For x86 architecture you can burn the ISO directly into a USB drive using
	`etcher <https://etcher.io/>`_ or  dd linux utility::

	$ sudo dd if=xxx.iso of=/dev/sdX bs=4096

	If you have a CD-DVD burner, you can burn the ISO into an optical media
	then boot from CD or DVD.

Boot the installer
------------------
	For x86 architecture, enter BIOS configuration, select to boot either from
	USB or CD and reboot.

Installer
---------
	The current ISO installer is reduced to have minimal interaction. You will
	prompted to select location, language and root password. The installer will
	pick the first available disk to deploy the the OS.

	Once the installer finished the system will reboot, make sure you remove the
	installer and select BIOS to boot from the disk where |omv| was installed.
	You can also start connecting any data drives you previously disconnected
	before install or reinstall.

	.. figure:: /_static/images/install_via_iso/install_1.png
	.. figure:: /_static/images/install_via_iso/install_2.png
	.. figure:: /_static/images/install_via_iso/install_3.png
	.. figure:: /_static/images/install_via_iso/install_4.png
	.. figure:: /_static/images/install_via_iso/install_5.png
	.. figure:: /_static/images/install_via_iso/install_6.png
	.. figure:: /_static/images/install_via_iso/install_7.png
	.. figure:: /_static/images/install_via_iso/install_8.png
	.. figure:: /_static/images/install_via_iso/install_9.png
	.. figure:: /_static/images/install_via_iso/install_10.png
	.. figure:: /_static/images/install_via_iso/install_11.png
	.. figure:: /_static/images/install_via_iso/install_12.png
	.. figure:: /_static/images/install_via_iso/install_13.png
	.. figure:: /_static/images/install_via_iso/install_14.png
	.. figure:: /_static/images/install_via_iso/install_15.png
	.. figure:: /_static/images/install_via_iso/install_16.png
	.. figure:: /_static/images/install_via_iso/install_17.png
	.. figure:: /_static/images/install_via_iso/install_18.png
	.. figure:: /_static/images/install_via_iso/install_19.png

Troubleshooting
---------------

The error `Unable to install GRUB in /dev/sda` occurs.
	In this case execute the following steps:

	- Select `Continue` in this window and also on the next which says
	  `Installation step failed`.
	- In the Debian installer main menu (which should have popped up by now),
	  select `Execute a shell` and then `Continue`.
	- Execute the following commands::

		# Chroot.
		chroot /target
		# Replace [a-z] with the drive you want to install grub to.
		# This is normally the drive you've selected to install OpenMediaVault on.
		grub-install /dev/sd[a-z]
		# Update GRUB.
		update-grub
		# Exit chroot.
		exit
		# Exit shell.
		exit

	- Select `Continue without boot loader` in the Debian installer main menu and
	  then `Continue`.
	- It should now continue the installation successfully.

Commit message:

Add download link.
Signed-off-by: Volker Theile <volker.theile@openmediavault.org>

installation/via_iso.rst, after:

Installation using an ISO image
###############################

.. important::

	Disconnect all disk devices except the one that will be used for the
	operating system before starting the installation.

.. warning::

	The operating system/root filesystem will consume the whole space of the
	picked disk device. All existing data on that disk device will get lost.

Download
--------
	You can down load the ISO images `here <https://sourceforge.net/projects/openmediavault/files/>`_.

Burn the installer
------------------
	For x86 architecture you can burn the ISO directly into a USB drive using
	`etcher <https://etcher.io/>`_ or  dd linux utility::

	$ sudo dd if=xxx.iso of=/dev/sdX bs=4096

	If you have a CD-DVD burner, you can burn the ISO into an optical media
	then boot from CD or DVD.

Boot the installer
------------------
	For x86 architecture, enter BIOS configuration, select to boot either from
	USB or CD and reboot.

Installer
---------
	The current ISO installer is reduced to have minimal interaction. You will
	prompted to select location, language and root password. The installer will
	pick the first available disk to deploy the the OS.

	Once the installer finished the system will reboot, make sure you remove the
	installer and select BIOS to boot from the disk where |omv| was installed.
	You can also start connecting any data drives you previously disconnected
	before install or reinstall.

	.. figure:: /_static/images/install_via_iso/install_1.png
	.. figure:: /_static/images/install_via_iso/install_2.png
	.. figure:: /_static/images/install_via_iso/install_3.png
	.. figure:: /_static/images/install_via_iso/install_4.png
	.. figure:: /_static/images/install_via_iso/install_5.png
	.. figure:: /_static/images/install_via_iso/install_6.png
	.. figure:: /_static/images/install_via_iso/install_7.png
	.. figure:: /_static/images/install_via_iso/install_8.png
	.. figure:: /_static/images/install_via_iso/install_9.png
	.. figure:: /_static/images/install_via_iso/install_10.png
	.. figure:: /_static/images/install_via_iso/install_11.png
	.. figure:: /_static/images/install_via_iso/install_12.png
	.. figure:: /_static/images/install_via_iso/install_13.png
	.. figure:: /_static/images/install_via_iso/install_14.png
	.. figure:: /_static/images/install_via_iso/install_15.png
	.. figure:: /_static/images/install_via_iso/install_16.png
	.. figure:: /_static/images/install_via_iso/install_17.png
	.. figure:: /_static/images/install_via_iso/install_18.png
	.. figure:: /_static/images/install_via_iso/install_19.png

Troubleshooting
---------------

The error `Unable to install GRUB in /dev/sda` occurs.
	In this case execute the following steps:

	- Select `Continue` in this window and also on the next which says
	  `Installation step failed`.
	- In the Debian installer main menu (which should have popped up by now),
	  select `Execute a shell` and then `Continue`.
	- Execute the following commands::

		# Chroot.
		chroot /target
		# Replace [a-z] with the drive you want to install grub to.
		# This is normally the drive you've selected to install OpenMediaVault on.
		grub-install /dev/sd[a-z]
		# Update GRUB.
		update-grub
		# Exit chroot.
		exit
		# Exit shell.
		exit

	- Select `Continue without boot loader` in the Debian installer main menu and
	  then `Continue`.
	- It should now continue the installation successfully.
