administration/general/notifications.rst, before:

Notifications
#############


Notifications work in the form of email. The backend software used here is postfix [1]_ configured as a MTA in satellite mode. The options allow to configure to send mail via SMTP servers using the standard port or use SSL/TLS. The |webui| allows the configuration of two recipient addresses. Both are assigned to the root user.


Configuration
=============

The central MTA configuration is stored in :file:`/etc/postfix/main.cf`

|omv| creates the :file:`/etc/postfix/recipient_canonical` to define the root (admin) and normal users mail addresses when added via the |webui|. Example::

	root rootthe@gmail.com
	mike mikeadmin@themailco.com
	@server.lan rootthe@gmail.com

When a scheduled task is defined to run as a certain user the output generated from that task, will be sent to that user defined mail.

The last line is the catch all address. For example a scheduled task set to be run as user with no mail defined in their profile will get the output generated sent to the catch all address (``rootthe@gmail.com``). The same will happen with any other mail action intended for an undefined user (not in that list).

Mails can be sent from terminal also with mail command. :command:`mail` receives from stdin.

Examples 1::

	$ echo "Message body" | mail -s "Test subject" mike

Mail will be delivered to ``mikeadmin@themailco.com`` as it is defined in canonical_recipients. The delivery address can be explicit also::

$ echo "Message body" | mail -s "Test subject" mikeadmin@themailco.com


Examples 2::

	$ echo "Message body" | mail -s "Test subject" john


Mail will delivered to ``rootthe@gmail.com`` because user **john** does not have an email address defined in canonical_recipients, so it goes to the catch all address.

.. warning::
	|omv| stores the configuration values in the database (including the password). Before posting information for support please sanitize the values.


Events
======

The server will send notifications for this events:

	- Log in from browser (If cookies are allowed, then it just sends once).
	- Use of sudo by a user not in allowed group.
	- Summary of locked users by pam_tally2 [2]_. This happens when a user or admin attempts fails to log in for more than three times.
	- MD RAID events: degraded, reshape, etc. [D]
	- Monit software: php-fpm, nginx, netatalk, rrdcached, collectd and omv-engined. [D]
	- Monit filesystem: usage and mount points. [D]
	- Monit system: CPU, Load and memory usage. [D]
	- Scheduled tasks. [D]
	- Rsync jobs. [D]
	- Cron-apt: Summary of upgrade packages available. [D]
	- SMART: Report of attribute changes. [D]

Options marked with [D] can be disabled selectively. The rest only when the whole notification backend is disabled.


Gmail
=====

Gmail can be used in notifications. If you have 2FA enabled for the account, then is necessary to create an `app password <https://myaccount.google.com/apppasswords>`_. Please use the following settings::

	SMTP Server: smtp.gmail.com
	SMTP Port: 587
	Encryption mode: STARTTLS
	Sender email: rootthe@gmail.com (include domain)
	Authentication required: Yes
	Username: rootthe@gmail.com (include domain)
	Password: <the app password here>
	Primary email: rootthe@gmail.com
	Secondary email: optional

.. note::
	Aliases are allowed. This is good for filtering later in gmail. ``rootthe@gmail.com`` can be ``rootthe+server1@gmail.com`` or ``rootthe+whatever@gmail.com``.

.. note::
	Gmail requires "access for less secure applications" to be enabled, in order for |omv| to send notifications using ``smtp.gmail.com``. `Enable access for less secure applications <https://myaccount.google.com/lesssecureapps>`_.


Third Party Notifications
=========================

Whenever a mail is dispatched by the MTA, postfix will execute a run-parts of this directory :file:`/usr/share/openmediavault/notification/sink.d`, passing the following environmental variables::

	OMV_NOTIFICATION_FROM
	OMV_NOTIFICATION_RECIPIENT
	OMV_NOTIFICATION_SUBJECT
	OMV_NOTIFICATION_DATE
	OMV_NOTIFICATION_MESSAGE_FILE

Also the following positional arguments are passed::

	$1 The path of the file containing the message text (OMV_NOTIFICATION_MESSAGE_FILE)
	$2 The FROM email address (OMV_NOTIFICATION_FROM)
	$3 The TO recipient email adresses (OMV_NOTIFICATION_RECIPIENT)

Most modern non mail notifications systems have a documented API, where you can send text using curl payloads with a secret `TOKEN`. So most common case would be to use `OMV_NOTIFICATION_MESSAGE_FILE` variable only in your script.

Your script's filename must adhere to the following standards:

	- Must belong to one or more of the following namespaces:

		- The LANANA-assigned namespace (``^[a-z0-9]+$``)
		- The LSB hierarchical and reserved namespaces (``^_?([a-z0-9_.]+-)+[a-z0-9]+$``)
		- The Debian cron script namespace (``^[a-zA-Z0-9_-]+$``)

	- Start with a number like this: :file:`<##>pushnotification`

.. note::
	- Do not add an extension to your script in the run-parts directory, otherwise it will get excluded.
	- Make sure the script file is executable. In this case also make sure the script is not a symlink to a mounted filesystem with `noexec` flag.


.. [1] http://www.postfix.org
.. [2] http://www.linux-pam.org/Linux-PAM-html/sag-pam_tally2.html

Commit message:

Updated note about "less secure apps" which is shut down now (#120)
The existing docs described how to use "less secure apps" but this option shut down in 2022 and is no longer available.

(cherry picked from commit ed70dc69c38473b1970d664c3914ff6f7c7db08e)
Signed-off-by: Volker Theile <votdev@gmx.de>

administration/general/notifications.rst, after:

Notifications
#############


Notifications work in the form of email. The backend software used here is postfix [1]_ configured as a MTA in satellite mode. The options allow to configure to send mail via SMTP servers using the standard port or use SSL/TLS. The |webui| allows the configuration of two recipient addresses. Both are assigned to the root user.


Configuration
=============

The central MTA configuration is stored in :file:`/etc/postfix/main.cf`

|omv| creates the :file:`/etc/postfix/recipient_canonical` to define the root (admin) and normal users mail addresses when added via the |webui|. Example::

	root rootthe@gmail.com
	mike mikeadmin@themailco.com
	@server.lan rootthe@gmail.com

When a scheduled task is defined to run as a certain user the output generated from that task, will be sent to that user defined mail.

The last line is the catch all address. For example a scheduled task set to be run as user with no mail defined in their profile will get the output generated sent to the catch all address (``rootthe@gmail.com``). The same will happen with any other mail action intended for an undefined user (not in that list).

Mails can be sent from terminal also with mail command. :command:`mail` receives from stdin.

Examples 1::

	$ echo "Message body" | mail -s "Test subject" mike

Mail will be delivered to ``mikeadmin@themailco.com`` as it is defined in canonical_recipients. The delivery address can be explicit also::

$ echo "Message body" | mail -s "Test subject" mikeadmin@themailco.com


Examples 2::

	$ echo "Message body" | mail -s "Test subject" john


Mail will delivered to ``rootthe@gmail.com`` because user **john** does not have an email address defined in canonical_recipients, so it goes to the catch all address.

.. warning::
	|omv| stores the configuration values in the database (including the password). Before posting information for support please sanitize the values.


Events
======

The server will send notifications for this events:

	- Log in from browser (If cookies are allowed, then it just sends once).
	- Use of sudo by a user not in allowed group.
	- Summary of locked users by pam_tally2 [2]_. This happens when a user or admin attempts fails to log in for more than three times.
	- MD RAID events: degraded, reshape, etc. [D]
	- Monit software: php-fpm, nginx, netatalk, rrdcached, collectd and omv-engined. [D]
	- Monit filesystem: usage and mount points. [D]
	- Monit system: CPU, Load and memory usage. [D]
	- Scheduled tasks. [D]
	- Rsync jobs. [D]
	- Cron-apt: Summary of upgrade packages available. [D]
	- SMART: Report of attribute changes. [D]

Options marked with [D] can be disabled selectively. The rest only when the whole notification backend is disabled.


Gmail
=====

Gmail can be used in notifications. If you have 2FA enabled for the account, then is necessary to create an `app password <https://myaccount.google.com/apppasswords>`_. Please use the following settings::

	SMTP Server: smtp.gmail.com
	SMTP Port: 587
	Encryption mode: STARTTLS
	Sender email: rootthe@gmail.com (include domain)
	Authentication required: Yes
	Username: rootthe@gmail.com (include domain)
	Password: <the app password here>
	Primary email: rootthe@gmail.com
	Secondary email: optional

.. note::
	Aliases are allowed. This is good for filtering later in gmail. ``rootthe@gmail.com`` can be ``rootthe+server1@gmail.com`` or ``rootthe+whatever@gmail.com``.

.. note::
	Google removed the "less secure apps" option on May 30, 2022. This means that there is no way to turn it on.  An app password must be used as described above.


Third Party Notifications
=========================

Whenever a mail is dispatched by the MTA, postfix will execute a run-parts of this directory :file:`/usr/share/openmediavault/notification/sink.d`, passing the following environmental variables::

	OMV_NOTIFICATION_FROM
	OMV_NOTIFICATION_RECIPIENT
	OMV_NOTIFICATION_SUBJECT
	OMV_NOTIFICATION_DATE
	OMV_NOTIFICATION_MESSAGE_FILE

Also the following positional arguments are passed::

	$1 The path of the file containing the message text (OMV_NOTIFICATION_MESSAGE_FILE)
	$2 The FROM email address (OMV_NOTIFICATION_FROM)
	$3 The TO recipient email adresses (OMV_NOTIFICATION_RECIPIENT)

Most modern non mail notifications systems have a documented API, where you can send text using curl payloads with a secret `TOKEN`. So most common case would be to use `OMV_NOTIFICATION_MESSAGE_FILE` variable only in your script.

Your script's filename must adhere to the following standards:

	- Must belong to one or more of the following namespaces:

		- The LANANA-assigned namespace (``^[a-z0-9]+$``)
		- The LSB hierarchical and reserved namespaces (``^_?([a-z0-9_.]+-)+[a-z0-9]+$``)
		- The Debian cron script namespace (``^[a-zA-Z0-9_-]+$``)

	- Start with a number like this: :file:`<##>pushnotification`

.. note::
	- Do not add an extension to your script in the run-parts directory, otherwise it will get excluded.
	- Make sure the script file is executable. In this case also make sure the script is not a symlink to a mounted filesystem with `noexec` flag.


.. [1] http://www.postfix.org
.. [2] http://www.linux-pam.org/Linux-PAM-html/sag-pam_tally2.html
